# Essential Next.js plugin v4 release notes

This is a full rewrite of the Essential Next.js plugin, with a new architecture that gives greater compatibility and stability.

## What's new

- Full support for Next.js rewrites, redirects and headers.
- Removes requirement for the `target` to be set to `serverless`, which is deprecated in Next 12.
- Faster builds and deploys. Instead of generating one function per route, there are just three functions per site and a much smaller list of rewrites.
- Bundling now uses Next.js's own node-file-trace, giving more predictable results and smaller uploads.
- Full support for Netlify's new [persistent On-Demand Builders](https://ntl.fyi/odb). Return `fallback: "blocking"` from `getStaticPaths` and your rendering will be deferred until the first page load, then persisted globally.
- A new image server, built on Nuxt's [ipx](https://github.com/unjs/ipx/). This is a high-performance, framework-agnostic image server based on sharp. This implementation uses On-Demand Builders to persist transformed images globally. Improved source image caching reduces time-to-first-byte for new transforms.
- Simplified configuration. You no longer need to set any Netlify-specific configuration options. For example, in a monorepo all you need to do is set `publish` to point to your `.next` directory and you can build the site in any way you like.

## Installing the beta

If you would like to try the beta, you should install it manually like this:

- Install the module:
```shell
npm install -D @netlify/plugin-nextjs@beta
```
- Change the `publish` directory to `.next`  and add the plugin to `netlify.toml` if not already installed:
```toml
[build]
publish = ".next"

[[plugins]]
package = "@netlify/plugin-nextjs"
```
