# Redirects and rewrites

Version 4 of the Next Runtime adds support for native Next.js
[rewrites](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/rewrites) and
[redirects](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects). These are defined in your `next.config.js`
file and include support for some features that are not included in Netlify redirects and rewrites.

## Using Netlify redirects and rewrites on a Next.js site

Every site on Netlify supports [redirects and rewrites](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/), which are defined
in a `_redirects` file or `netlify.toml`, and sites that use the Next Runtime are no exceptions. However there are some
caveats to bear in mind when using them. The Next Runtime generates several rewrites of its own, which are used to map
paths from the site to different Netlify Functions which handle SSR, preview mode and images, as well as assets in
`/_next/static`. Any Netlify redirects or rewrites that you create
[take precedence over these rewrites](#Redirect-and-rewrite-precedence), so you should avoid adding a root-level Netlify
rewrite, because that would override the rewrites generated by and required by the runtime.

## Redirect and rewrite precedence

Rewrites and redirects are applied in the following order:

1. Redirects and rewrites in the `_redirects` file. These are read in order until a match is found, and then processing
   stops.
2. Redirects and rewrites in the `netlify.toml` file. None of these are read if one previous rules has already matched.
3. At this point, if the request targets a static file then it will be returned, without the Next.js redirects or
   rewrites being evaluated.
4. Any request that does not target a static file will then be passed to Next.js, and then will evaluate redirects and
   rewrites (which are defined in the `next.config.js` file).

## General principles

Netlify and Next.js redirects support different features and are evaluated at different points in the request lifecycle,
so there are some considerations in deciding which one to use with your site.

### When to use Netlify redirects or rewrites:

- Generally if your redirect can be handled with Netlify redirects, these are faster to evaluate and should be
  preferred.
- [Identity](https://docs.netlify.com/visitor-access/identity/),
  [proxying](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/rewrites-proxies/) and
  [country-based redirects](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/) are Netlify-specific features and must use
  Netlify redirects.
- If you need redirects or rewrites to be applied before loading static files, you must use Netlify redirects and
  rewrites.

### When to use Next.js redirects or rewrites:

- If you are using a _rewrite_ that points to a dynamic Next.js page, you must use Next.js rewrites. Next.js has no way
  of knowing what the rewritten page is when using Netlify rewrites, so the wrong page is likely to be rendered. This
  only applies to rewrites, not redirects.
- If you need Next.js-specific features such as regex path or header matching, you must use Next.js rewrites.

### Using `_redirects` and `_headers` files

If you are using `_redirects` or `_headers` files rather than a `netlify.toml` file, bear in mind that these files must
be in the published directory of your site, not the root of the repo. To do this, put them in `public` and they will be
moved into `.next` at build time. Do not put them directly into `.next`, because it is emptied at build time. Any
`_redirects` or `_headers` files in the root of the repo will not be found when deployed.
